This code book describes the data including how the original data was obtained (study design),
how the data was made into tidy data (one final file "tidy_data.csv") and basic 
description of variables (Variable description) in the data.

- Study Design:

The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. 
Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) 
wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, 
we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. 
The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. 
The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was 
selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 

The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise 
filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). 
The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated 
using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. 
The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter 
with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by 
calculating variables from the time and frequency domain.

- Tidy data creation:

R script called run_analysis.R does the following:

1. Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set (final_data)
2. Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement. 
3. Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set.
4. Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names.
5. From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with 
the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

Check README. txt for how the data was combined into one tidy dataset.


- Variables description

The final tidy dataset contains 81 variables 

1.     subject - id of the subject 1:30
2.     Activity_Label -(LAYING, SITTING, STANDING, WALKING, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, WALKING_UPSTAIRS)
3-81.  Description of the activity - Mean and Standard deviation of movement as
       measured by Accelerator or Gyroscope, transformed to average of each variable for each activity and each subject

more info on variables 3-81:
	'-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions
	prefix 't' denotes time
	the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time 
	to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAcceloratorJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroscopeJerk-XYZ)

